일 월 FOMC 의사록 연준이 전망하고 있는 테이퍼링 경로는
올해 월 중순 시작한 후 내년 중반 종료 월 FOMC 의사록에서는 연준에서 전망하는 테이퍼링 경로가 제시되었다.
지난 월 FOMC 회의에서 처음으로 테이퍼링 시점 timing 속도pace 구성composition에 대한 심층 분석이 진행된 바 월 회의에서는 시작 및 종료 시점과 축소 규모 등이 구체 적으로 언급되었다.
연준 위원들은 만약 월 중순에 시작 하는 월별 구매 일정부터 적용될 수 있으며 내년 중반 경에는 테이퍼링 절차가 종료되는 것이 적절할 것이라고 예상했다.
매입 축소 구성은 미국채 억 달러이며 매입 속도는 점진적gradual으로 감소시킬 것으로 상정했다.
단 테이퍼링 시작을 위 한 결과 기반outcomebased 기준에 따라 경제 발전이 예상과 상당히 다를 경우 매입 속도를 조정할 수 있다는 점도 언급됐는데 이는 매입 축소 규모가 유동적으로 증액 또는 감액 될 수 있다는 점을 시사했다는 판단이다.
테이퍼링 주사위는 던져졌다월 FOMC에서 자산매입 관련 문구를 If progress continues broadly as expected the Committee judges that a moderation in the pace of asset purchases may soon be warranted으로 수정 해 시점에 대한 힌트를 시장에 던져주었고 공식적인 언급은 없었지만 의사록에서 확인되었듯 시점 규모 등 세부 사항들이 내부적으 로 합의된 것으로 보인다. 지난 천 명 감소에 전월 수치월 FOMC 기자회견에서 제롬 파웰 의장이 엄청나고knock out 훌륭하고great 강력한super strong 고용 보고서는 필요 없다고 언급한 점 월 고용 보고서가 고용의 회복 기조를 저해하지 않은 수준이라는 점을 감안하면 기존 전망대로 월 FOMC에서 테이퍼링이 결정될 것으로 예상한다. 에서 월 의사록에 따르면 스태프들은 물가에 공 급 제약이 당초 예상했던 것보다 더 큰 상승 압력을 가하고 있다면서 이러한 제약이 해결되기까지 더 오래 걸릴 것으로 분석했고 물가 상방리스크가 높은 상황이라 평가했다. 연준 위원들 역시 높은elevated 물가상승률이 관찰되었고 상품과 노동시장 공급 제약이 예상 보다 크고 오래 지속될 가능성 때문에 물가 상승률이 완화되기 전 향후 몇 달간은 그렇게 유지될 것으로 예상했다. 다만 일부 위원들은 여전히 최근의 높은 물가 상승에 가장 큰 이유는 소수의 코로나 팬데믹에 민감한 범위임을 지적했고 코로나 관련 수급 불균형이 진정 되면 물가 상승 압력이 완화될 것으로 전망했다. 연준은 일시적 요인에 기인한 물가상승이라는 전망의 큰 틀은 유지하고 있지만 최근 파웰 의장의 발언 강도에 변화가 감지되고 있는 것을 사실이다. 결국 물가상승률이 연준의 전망 경로를 지속적으로 상회한다면 연준은 조기 금리 인상이라는 사면초가에 놓일 수 있다. Jr. Economist 우혜영 투자코멘트 우혜영
s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 년 FOMC 의사록 자산매입 관련 주요 문구 월 월 월 월 FOMC FOMC FOMC FOMC Participants noted that the increase in the Federal Reserves balance sheet since last March had materially eased financial conditions and was providing substantial support to the economy.
The Committees guidance for asset purchases indicated that asset purchases would continue at least at the current pace until substantial further progress toward its employment and inflation goals had been achieved.
With the economy still far from those goals participants judged that it was likely to take some time for substantial further progress to be achieved.
Various participants noted the importance of the Committee clearly communicating clearly communicating clearly communicating clearly communicating its assessment of progress toward its longerrun goals well in advance well in advance well in advance well in advance of the time when it could be judged substantial enough to warrant a change in the pace of purchases.
월 월 월 월 FOMC FOMC FOMC FOMC Participants agreed that overall financial conditions were accommodative.
They noted that the Federal Reserves asset purchases since last March had materially eased financial conditions and were providing substantial support to the economy.
Participants noted that it would likely be some time until substantial further progress toward the Committees maximum employment and pricestability goals would be realized and that consistent with the Committees outcomebased guidance asset purchases would continue at least at the current pace until then.
A number of participants highlighted the importance of the Committee clearly communicating its assessment of progress toward its longerrun goals well in advance of the time when it could be judged substantial enough to warrant a change in the pace of asset purchases.
The The The The timing of such communications would depend on the evolution of the economy and the pace timing of such communications would depend on the evolution of the economy and the pace timing of such communications would depend on the evolution of the economy and the pace timing of such communications would depend on the evolution of the economy and the pace of progress toward the of progress toward the of progress toward the of progress toward the Committees goals Committees goals Committees goals Committees goals.
월 월 월 월 FOMC FOMC FOMC FOMC In their discussion of the Federal Reserves asset purchases various participants noted that it would likely be some time until the economy had made substantial further progress toward the Committees maximumemployment and pricestability goals relative to the conditions prevailing in December when the Committee first provided its guidance for asset purchases.
Consistent with the Committees outcomebased guidance purchases would continue at least at the current pace until that time.
Many participants highlighted the importance of the Committee clearly communicating its assessment of progress toward its longerrun goals well in advance of the time when it could be judged substantial enough to warrant a change in the pace of asset purchases.
The timing of such communications would depend on the evolution of the economy and the pace of progress toward the Committees goals.
A number of participants suggested that if the economy continued to make rapid p rapid p rapid p rapid progress rogress rogress rogress toward the Committees goals it might be appropriate at some point in upcoming meetings to begin begin begin begin discussing a plan for adjusting the pace of asset purchases discussing a plan for adjusting the pace of asset purchases discussing a plan for adjusting the pace of asset purchases discussing a plan for adjusting the pace of asset purchases.
월 월 월 월 FOMC FOMC FOMC FOMC Various participants offered their views on the Committees agency MBS purchases.
Several participants saw benefits to Several participants saw benefits to Several participants saw benefits to Several participants saw benefits to reducing the pace of these purchases more quickly or earlier than Treasury purchases in light of valuation pressures in reducing the pace of these purchases more quickly or earlier than Treasury purchases in light of valuation pressures in reducing the pace of these purchases more quickly or earlier than Treasury purchases in light of valuation pressures in reducing the pace of these purchases more quickly or earlier than Treasury purchases in light of valuation pressures in housing markets housing markets housing markets housing markets.
Several other participants however commented that reducing the pace of Treasury and MBS purchases commensurately was preferable because this approach would be well aligned with the Committees previous communications or because purchases of Treasury securities and MBS both provide accommodation through their influence on broader financial conditions.
In coming meetings participants agreed to continue assessing the economys progress In coming meetings participants agreed to continue assessing the economys progress In coming meetings participants agreed to continue assessing the economys progress In coming meetings participants agreed to continue assessing the economys progress toward the Committees goals and to begin to discuss their plans for a toward the Committees goals and to begin to discuss their plans for a toward the Committees goals and to begin to discuss their plans for a toward the Committees goals and to begin to discuss their plans for adjusting the path and composition of asset djusting the path and composition of asset djusting the path and composition of asset djusting the path and composition of asset purchases purchases purchases purchases.
In addition participants reiterated their intention to provide notice well in advance of an announcement to reduce the pace of purchases.
투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 월 월 월 월 FOMC FOMC FOMC FOMC No decisions regarding future adjustments to asset purchases were made at this meeting.
Most participants judged that the Most participants judged that the Most participants judged that the Most participants judged that the Committees standard of substantial further progress toward the maximum Committees standard of substantial further progress toward the maximum Committees standard of substantial further progress toward the maximum Committees standard of substantial further progress toward the maximum employment goal had not yet been met employment goal had not yet been met employment goal had not yet been met employment goal had not yet been met.
At the same time most participants remarked that this standard had been achieved with respect to the pricestability goal.
A few participants noted however that the transitory nature of this years rise in inflation as well as the recent declines in longerterm yields and in marketbased measures of inflation compensation cast doubt on the degree of progress that had been made toward the pricestability goal since December.
Looking ahead most participants noted that provided that the economy were to evolve broadly as they anticipated they judged that it could be appropriate to start reducing the pace of asset purchases this year because they saw the Committees substantial further progress criterion as satisfied with respect to the pricestability goal and as close to being satisfied with respect to the maximumemployment goal.
Various Various Various Various participants commented that economic and financial conditions would likely warrant a reduction in coming months participants commented that economic and financial conditions would likely warrant a reduction in coming months participants commented that economic and financial conditions would likely warrant a reduction in coming months participants commented that economic and financial conditions would likely warrant a reduction in coming months.
Several others indicated however that a reduction in the pace of asset purchases was more likely to become appropriate early next year because they saw prevailing conditions in the labor market as not being close to meeting the Committees substantial further progress standard or because of uncertainty about the degree of progress toward the pricestability goal.
Participants agreed that the Committee would provide advance notice before making changes to its balance sheet policy.
Participants exchanged views on what the composition of asset purchases should be during the tapering process.
Most Most Most Most participants remarked that they sa participants remarked that they sa participants remarked that they sa participants remarked that they saw benefits in reducing the pace of net purchases of Treasury securities and agency MBS w benefits in reducing the pace of net purchases of Treasury securities and agency MBS w benefits in reducing the pace of net purchases of Treasury securities and agency MBS w benefits in reducing the pace of net purchases of Treasury securities and agency MBS proportionally in order to end both sets of purchases at the same time proportionally in order to end both sets of purchases at the same time proportionally in order to end both sets of purchases at the same time proportionally in order to end both sets of purchases at the same time.
These participants observed that such an approach would be consistent with the Committees understanding that purchases of Treasury securities and agency MBS had similar effects on broader financial conditions and played similar roles in the transmission of monetary policy or that these purchases were not intended as credit allocation.
Some of these participants remarked however that they welcomed further discussion of the appropriate composition of asset purchases during the tapering process.
Several participants commented on the benefits that they saw in reducing agency MBS purchases more quickly than Treasury securities purchases noting that the housing sector was exceptionally strong and did not need either actual or perceived support from the Federal Reserve in the form of agency MBS purchases or that such purchases could be interpreted as a type of credit allocation.
월 월 월 월 FOMC FOMC FOMC FOMC Participants also expressed their views on how slowing in the pace of purchases might proceed.
In particular participants commented on an illustrative path developed by the staff and reflecting participants discussions at the Committees July meeting that gave the speed and composition associated with a tapering of asset purchases.
The illustrative tapering path was designed to be simple to communicate and entailed a gradual reduction in the pace of net asset purchases that if begun later this year would lead the Federal Reserve to end purchases around the middle of next year.
The path featured The path featured The path featured The path featured monthly reductions in the pace of asset purchases by billion in the monthly reductions in the pace of asset purchases by billion in the monthly reductions in the pace of asset purchases by billion in the monthly reductions in the pace of asset purchases by billion in the case case case case of agency mortgage of agency mortgage of agency mortgage of agency mortgage backed securitiesMBS.
backed securitiesMBS.
backed securitiesMBS.
backed securitiesMBS.
Participants generally commented that the illustrative path provided a straightforward and appropriate template that policymakers might follow and a couple of participants observed that giving advance notice to the general public of a plan along these lines may reduce the risk of an adverse market reaction to a moderation in asset purchases.
Participants noted that in keeping with the outcomebased standard for initiating a tapering of asset purchases the Committee could adjust the pace of the moderation of its purchases if economic developments were to differ substantially from what they expected.
Several participants indicated that they preferred to proceed with a more rapid moderation of purchases than described in the illustrative examples.
No decision to proceed with a moderation of asset purchases was made at the meeting but participants generally assessed that provided that the economic recovery remained broadly on track a gradual tapering process that concluded around the middle of nex middle of nex middle of nex middle of next year t year t year t year would likely be appropriate.
Participants noted that if a decision to begin tapering purchases occurred at the next meeting the process of tapering could commence with the monthly purchase calendars beginning in either mid beginning in either mid beginning in either mid beginning in either mid November or mid November or mid November or mid November or mid December.
December.
December.
December.
투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 그림 년 자료 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 그림 년 자료 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 그림 SOMA 보유 규모 그림 지급준비금과 RRP 자료 Fred 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 자료 Fred 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 십억달러 US TBills Notes and BondsFRN포함 TIPS Federa Agency Securities MBS CMBS 십억달러 십억달러 SOMA 지급준비금 RRP역축 좌 투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 참고 월 FOMC 점도표 및 수정경제전망 그림 월 점도표 그림 월 점도표 자료 Fed 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 자료 Fed 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 그림 미국 경제성장률 전망치 그림 미국 경제성장률 전망치에 대한 불확실성 및 리스크 평가 자료 FedSEP 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 그림 미국 물가상승률 전망치 그림 미국 물가상승률 전망치에 대한 불확실성 및 리스크 평가 자료 FedSEP 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 Longer run 경제성장률 YoY Longer run 물가상승률PCE YoY 투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 그림 불확실성에 대한 Diffusion Indexes 주월은 제외한 데이터 주년 간 불확실성 수준과 비교해 전망 시 높다Higher고 답변한 수에서 낮다Lower고 답변한 수를 전체 답변자 수로 나눈 값 자료 FedSEP 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 그림 리스크에 대한 Diffusion Indexes 주월은 제외한 데이터 주 상방 리스크Weighted to the Upside라고 답변한 수에서 하방 리스크Weighted to the Downside라고 답변한 수를 전체 답변자 수로 나눈 값 자료 FedSEP 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 Compliance Notice 본 자료에 기재된 내용들은 작성자 본인의 의견을 정확하게 반영하고 있으며 외부의 부당한 압력이나 간섭 없이 작성되었음을 확인합니다작성자우혜영.
본 자료는 고객의 증권투자를 돕기 위한 정보제공을 목적으로 제작되었습니다.
본 자료에 수록된 내용은 당사 리서치본부가 신뢰할 만한 자료 및 정보를 바탕으로 작성한 것이 나 당사가 그 정확성이나 완전성을 보장할 수 없으므로 참고자료로만 활용하시기 바라며 유가증권 투자 시 투자자 자신의 판단과 책임하에 최종결정을 하시기 바랍니다.
따라서 본 자료는 어떠한 경우에도 고객의 증권투자 결과에 대한 법적 책임소재의 증빙자료로 사용될 수 없습니다.
본 자료는 당사의 저작물로서 모든 저작권은 당사에게 있으며 어떠한 경우에도 당사의 동의 없이 복제 배포 전송 변형될 수 없습니다. 
동 자료는 제공시점 현재 기관투자가 또는 제자에게 사전 제공한 사실이 없습니다. 
동 자료의 추천종목은 전일 기준 현재당사에서 이상 보유하고 있지 않습니다. 
동 자료의 추천종목은 전일 기준 현재 당사의 조사분석 담당자 및 그 배우자 등 관련자가 보유하고 있지 않습니다. 
동 자료의 추천종목에 해당하는 회사는 당사와 계열회사 관계에 있지 않습니다.
