일 월 ECB Review bp 인상하고 TPI 승인 마이너스 금리에서 벗어난 ECB 인상했고 금리 인상 관련 포 워드 가이던스를 폐기했다.
아울러 통화정책 전달 메커니즘을 지원하기 위해 TPITransmission Protection Instrument를 승인했다.
월 추가 인상 시 더 큰 폭의 인상 가능성을 시사한 바 있다.
하지만 유로존 내 에너지 문제가 해결되지 않은 상황에서 달러 대비 유로화 약세 심화까지 더해지면서 물가 상승률이 ECB의 예상치를 상회하고 있는 점을 고려 해 bp인상에 나섰다.
이로써 ECB는 한 차례의 인상으로 월 이후 이어졌던 마이너스 금리에서 벗어났다.
크 리스틴 라가르드 총재는 이러한 결정이 당초 전망했던 금리 수준보다 더 높은 금리로 가겠다는 의미는 아니며 정책 정상화를 빠르게 진행하겠다는 의미도 아님을 강조했다.
그러면서 데이터를 기반으로 통화정책을 운영하겠다는 입장을 밝혔다.
연내 ECB의 금리 인상 가능성이 높아진 시점부터 이미 유로존 국가들의 금리의 가파른 상승세가 시작되었다.
이에 ECB는 지난 월 일 긴급 회의를 개최해 시장의 분절화파편화market fragmentation에 대응하기 위해 PEPP 포트폴리오 재투자의 유연성을 부여 했고 추가적으로 도구를 마련할 것을 결정한 바 있다.
이러한 배경에서 이날 ECB는 년 만기 국채를 매입하는 TPI를 새롭게 도 입했고 유로존 전반에 통화정책 기조가 원활하게 전달되는데 도움이 될 것으로 기대했다.
다만 심각한 위협이 되는 부적절하고 무질 서한 시장 역학이 발생해야 가동된다는 내용이 다소 모호하며 매입 대상의 요건EU 재정 프레임워크 준수 심각한 거시경제적인 불 균형 없어야 함 재정의 지속가능성 건전하고 지속 가능한 거시경제 정책 등이 있어 채권매입 관련 ECB의 재량이 확대돼 통화정책 관련 불확실성이 보다 높아졌다는 판단이다. Fixed Income 우혜영 년만의 금리 인상 자료 Infomax 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 재융자금리 한계대출금리 초단기수신금리 식료품 및 비주류 음료 주류 및 담배 의류 및 신발 주택 수도 전기 및 연료 가정용품 및 가사서비스 보건 교통 통신 오락 및 문화 교육 음식 및 숙박 기타 상품 및 서비스 유로존 HICP p YoY 투자코멘트 우혜영
s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 Appendix 월 ECB 통화정책결정문 월 월 월 월 통화정책결정문 통화정책결정문 통화정책결정문 통화정책결정문 Today in line with the Governing Councils strong commitment to its price stability mandate the Governing Council took further key steps to make sure inflation returns to its target over the medium term.
The Governing Council decided to raise the three key to raise the three key to raise the three key to raise the three key ECB interest rates by basis point ECB interest rates by basis point ECB interest rates by basis point ECB interest rates by basis points and approved the Transmission Protection Instrument TPI.
s and approved the Transmission Protection Instrument TPI.
s and approved the Transmission Protection Instrument TPI.
s and approved the Transmission Protection Instrument TPI.
 금리 bp 인상 TPI 승인 결정 The Governing Council judged that it is appropriate to take a larger first step on its policy rate normalisation path than signalled at it is appropriate to take a larger first step on its policy rate normalisation path than signalled at it is appropriate to take a larger first step on its policy rate normalisation path than signalled at it is appropriate to take a larger first step on its policy rate normalisation path than signalled at its previous meeting its previous meeting its previous meeting its previous meeting.
This decision is based on the Governing Councils updated assessment of inflation risks and the reinforced support provided by the TPI for the effective transmission of monetary policy.
It will support the return of inflation to the Governing Councils mediumterm target by strengthening the anchoring of inflation expectations and by ensuring that demand conditions adjust to deliver its inflation target in the medium term.
 월 회의에서 시그널한 것보다 더 큰 폭의 금리 인상을 통해 정책금리 정상화가 적절하다고 판단.
이는 인플레이션 리스크에 대한 업데 이트된 평가와 통화정책의 효과적인 전달을 위한 TPI가 제공하는 강화된 지원을 바탕으로 결정.
기대 인플레이션의 고정안정을 강화하고 수요 여건이 중기 인플레이션 목표를 달성할 수 있도록 조정함으로써 ECB의 목표 수준으로 중기 인플레이션이 회복될 수 있도록 지원 At the Governing Councils upcoming meetings further normalisation of interest rates will be appropriate.
The frontloading today of the exit from negative interest rates allows the Governing Council to make a transition to a meetingbymeeting approach to interest rate decisions.
The Governing Councils future policy rate path will continue to be datadependent and will help to deliver on its inflation target over the medium term.
In the context of its policy normalisation the Governing Council will evaluate options for remunerating excess liquidity holdings.
 정책 정상화의 맥락에서 ECB는 초과 유동성 보유에 대한 보상을 위한 옵션을 평가할 것 The Governing Council assessed that the establishment of the TPI is necessary to support the effective transmission of monetary policy.
In particular as the Governing Council continues normalising monetary polic .
In particular as the Governing Council continues normalising monetary polic .
In particular as the Governing Council continues normalising monetary polic .
In particular as the Governing Council continues normalising monetary policy the TPI will ensure that the monetary policy y the TPI will ensure that the monetary policy y the TPI will ensure that the monetary policy y the TPI will ensure that the monetary policy stance is transmitted smoothly across all euro area countries.
The singleness of the Governing Council stance is transmitted smoothly across all euro area countries.
The singleness of the Governing Council stance is transmitted smoothly across all euro area countries.
The singleness of the Governing Council stance is transmitted smoothly across all euro area countries.
The singleness of the Governing Councils monetary policy is a s monetary policy is a s monetary policy is a s monetary policy is a precondition for the ECB to be able to deliver on its price stability mandate.
precondition for the ECB to be able to deliver on its price stability mandate.
precondition for the ECB to be able to deliver on its price stability mandate.
precondition for the ECB to be able to deliver on its price stability mandate.
 ECB는 통화정책의 효과적인 전달을 지원하기 위해 TPI의 설립이 필요하다고 평가.
특히 통화정책 정상화를 지속함에 따라 TPI는 유로 존 전반에 통화정책 기조가 원활히 전달될 수 있도록 할 것.
단일 통화정책은 ECB가 물가 안정 의무를 이행하는 전제 조건 The TPI will be an addition to the Governing Councils toolkit and can be activated to counter unwarranted disorderly market dynamics that pose a serious threat to the transmission of monetary policy across the euro area.
The scale of TPI purchases depends on the severity of the risks facing policy transmission.
Purchases are not restricted ex ante.
By safeguarding the transmission mechanism the TPI will allow the Governing Council to more effectively deliver on its price stability mandate.
 TPI는 ECB의 툴킷에 추가될 것이며 유로존 전체에 통화정책을 전달하는데 심각한 위협이 되는 부적절하고 무질서한 시장 역학에 대응 하기 위해 활성화될 수 있음.
TPI 매입 규모는 통화정책 전달에 직면한 위험의 심각성에 따라 상이.
매입은 사전에 제한하지 않음.
TPI는 전 달 메커니즘을 보호함으로써 ECB가 물가 안정 임무를 보다 효과적으로 수행할 수 있도록 함
In any event the flexibility in reinvestments of redemptions coming due in the pandemic emergency purchase programme PEPP portfolio remains the first line of defence to counter risks to the transmission mechanism related to the pandemic.
 PEPP 포트폴리오의 재투자 유연성은 팬데믹과 관련된 전달 메커니즘에 대한 위험에 대응하기 위한 첫 번째 방어선 Key ECB interest rates Key ECB interest rates Key ECB interest rates Key ECB interest rates The Governing Council decided to raise the three key ECB interest rates by basis points.
Accordingly the interest rate on the main refinancing operations and the interest rates on the marginal lending facility and the deposit facility will be increased to . 빅 스텝 인상 결정함에 따라 재융자금리는 .
At the Governing Councils upcoming meetings further normalisation of interest rates will be appropriate.
The frontloading today of the exit from negative interest rates allows the Governing Council to make a transition to a meetingbymeeting approach to 투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 interest rate decisions.
The Governing Councils future policy rate path will continue to be datadependent and will help to deliver on its inflation target over the medium term.
 향후 회의에서 금리의 추가 정상화가 적절.
오늘 회의를 통해 마이너스 금리에서 빠져나오게 돼
ECB의 금리 결정은 매 회의 마다 금리 결정 접근에 따라 전환 가능.
향후 정책금리 경로는 계속해서 데이터에 의존할 것이며 중기적으로 의 물가 목표 달성에 도움될 것 Asset purchase programme APP and pandemic emergency purchase programme PEPP Asset purchase programme APP and pandemic emergency purchase programme PEPP Asset purchase programme APP and pandemic emergency purchase programme PEPP Asset purchase programme APP and pandemic emergency purchase programme PEPP The Governing Council intends to continue reinvesting in full the principal payments from maturing securities purchased under the APP for an extended period of time past the date when it starts raising the key ECB interest rates and in any case for as long as necessary to maintain ample liquidity conditions and an appropriate monetary policy stance.
As concerns the PEPP the Governing Council intends to reinvest the principal payments from maturing securities purchased under the programme until at least the end of . In any case the future rolloff of the PEPP portfolio will be managed to avoid interference with the appropriate monetary policy stance.
Redemptions coming due in the PEPP portfolio are being reinvested flexibly with a view to countering risks to the transmission mechanism related to the pandemic.
Refinancing operations Refinancing operations Refinancing operations Refinancing operations The Governing Council will continue to monitor bank funding conditions and ensure that the maturing of operations under the third series of targeted longerterm refinancing operations TLTRO III does not hamper the smooth transmission of its monetary policy.
The Governing Council will also regularly assess how targeted lending operations are contributing to its monetary policy stance.
 ECB는 은행 자금 조달 상황을 지속적으로 모니터링하고 TLTRO III 오퍼레이션 만기가 통화정책의 원활할 전달을 방해하지 않도록 할 것.
아울러 목표 대출 오퍼레이션이 통화정책스탠스에 어떠한 기여를 하고 있는지 정기적으로 평가할 것 The Governing Council stands ready to adjust all of its instruments within its mandate to ensure that inflation stabilises at its target over the medium term.
The Governing Councils new TPI will safeguard the smooth transmission of its monetary policy stance throughout the euro area.
 ECB는 인플레이션이 중기적으로 목표 수준에서 안정될 수 있도록 위임한 범위 내에서 모든 수단을 조정할 준비가 되어 있음.
ECB의 새 로운 TPI는 유로 지역 전반에 통화정책 기조가 원활하게 전달될 수 있도록 보호할 것 투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 월 월 월 월 통화정책결정문 통화정책결정문 통화정책결정문 통화정책결정문 High inflation is a major challenge for all of us.
The Governing Council will make sure that inflation returns to its target over the medium term.
In May inflation again rose significantly mainly because of surging energy and food prices including due to the impact of the war.
But inflation pressures have broadened and intensified with prices for many goods and services increasing strongly.
Eurosystem staff have revised their baseline inflation projections up significantly.
These projections indicate that inflation will remain undesirably elevated for some time.
However moderating energy costs the easing of supply disruptions related to the pandemic and the normalisation of monetary policy are expected to lead to a decline in inflation.
The new staff projections foresee annual inflation at higher than in the March projections.
This means that headline inflation at the end of the projection horizon is projected to be slightly above the Governing Councils target.
Inflation excluding energy and food is projected to average also above the March projections.
Russias unjustified aggression towards Ukraine continues to weigh on the economy in Europe and beyond.
It is disrupting trade is leading to shortages of materials and is contributing to high energy and commodity prices.
These factors will continue to weigh on confidence and dampen growth especially in the near term.
However the conditions are in place for the economy to continue to grow on account of the ongoing reopening of the economy a strong labour market fiscal support and savings built up during the pandemic.
Once current headwinds abate economic activity is expected to pick up again.
This outlook is broadly reflected in the Eurosystem staff projections which foresee annual real GDP growth at . Compared with the March projections the outlook has been revised down significantly for it has been revised up.
On the basis of its updated assessment the Governing Council decided to take further steps in normalising its monetary policy.
Throughout this process the Governing Council will maintain optionality datadependence gradualism and flexibility in the conduct of monetary policy.
Asset purchase programme APP and pandemic emergency pu Asset purchase programme APP and pandemic emergency pu Asset purchase programme APP and pandemic emergency pu Asset purchase programme APP and pandemic emergency purchase programme PEPP rchase programme PEPP rchase programme PEPP rchase programme PEPP The Governing Council decided to end net asset purchases under its asset purchase programme APP as of . The Governing Council intends to continue reinvesting in full the principal payments from maturing securities purchased under the APP for an extended period of time past the date when it starts raising the key ECB interest rates and in any case for as long as necessary to maintain ample liquidity conditions and an appropriate monetary policy stance.
 일부터 APP 종료.
maintain favourable liquidity conditions and an ample degree of monetary accommodation 문구 수정 As concerns the pandemic emergency purchase programme PEPP the Governing Council intends to reinvest the principal payments from maturing securities purchased under the programme until at least the end of . In any case the future rolloff of the PEPP portfolio will be managed to avoid interference with the appropriate monetary policy stance.유지
 향후 롤오프는 적절한 통화정책 기조를 방해하지 않도록 관리될 것 In the event of renewed market fragmentation related to the pandemic PEPP reinvestments can be adjusted flexibly across time asset classes and jurisdictions at any time.
This could include purchasing bonds issued by the Hellenic Republic over and above rollovers of redemptions in order to avoid an interruption of purchases in that jurisdiction which could impair the transmission of monetary policy to the Greek economy while it is still recovering from the fallout from the pandemic.
Net purchases under the PEPP could also be resumed if necessary to counter negative shocks related to the pandemic. 유지
Key ECB interest rates Key ECB interest rates Key ECB interest rates Key ECB interest rates The Governing Council undertook a careful review of the conditions which according to its forward guidance should be satisfied before it starts raising the key ECB interest rates.
As a result of this assessment the Governing Council concluded that those As a result of this assessment the Governing Council concluded that those As a result of this assessment the Governing Council concluded that those As a result of this assessment the Governing Council concluded that those conditions have been satisfied.
conditions have been satisfied.
conditions have been satisfied.
conditions have been satisfied.
Accordingly and in line with the Governing Councils policy sequencing the Governing Council intends intends intends intends to raise the key ECB interest rates by basis points at its July monetary policy meeting.
to raise the key ECB interest rates by basis points at its July monetary policy meeting.
to raise the key ECB interest rates by basis points at its July monetary policy meeting.
to raise the key ECB interest rates by basis points at its July monetary policy meeting.
In the meantime the Governing Council decided to leave the interest rate on the main refinancing operations and the interest rates on the marginal lending facility and the deposit facility unchanged at respectively.
투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 월엔 주요 금리를 동결.
ECB는 기준금리 인상 전 포워드 가이던스에 따라 요건을 충족하는지 주의 깊게 점검.
평가한 결과 이러한 요 건을 충족.
bp 인상 시사.
Looking further ahead the Governing Council expects to raise the key ECB interest rates again in September.
The calibration of this rate increase will depend on the updated mediumterm inflation outlook.
If the mediumterm inflation outlook persists or deteriorates a larger increment will be appropriate at the September meeting.
 월에도 금리를 인상할 것으로 예상하는데 조정 폭은 업데이트 되는 중기 인플레이션에 달림.
중기 인플레이션 전망이 지속되거나 악화 될 경우 월 회의에서는 더 큰 폭의 인상이 적절 Beyond September based on its current assessment the Governing Council anticipates that a gradual but sustained path of gradual but sustained path of gradual but sustained path of gradual but sustained path of further increases in further increases in further increases in further increases in interest rates will be appropriate interest rates will be appropriate interest rates will be appropriate interest rates will be appropriate.
In line with the Governing Councils commitment to its mediumterm target the pace at which the Governing Council adjusts its monetary policy will depend on the incoming data and how it assesses inflation to develop in the medium term.
 월 이후에는 ECB는 점진적이지만 지속 가능한 경로의 인상이 적절할 것으로 예상.
중기 인플레이션에 대한 평가가 어떻게 되는지 새로 확인되는 데이터를 바탕으로 통화정책 조정 Refinancing operations Refinancing operations Refinancing operations Refinancing operations The Governing Council will continue to monitor bank funding conditions and ensure that the maturing of operations under the third series of targeted longerterm refinancing operations TLTRO III does not hamper the smooth transmission of its monetary policy.
The Governing Council will also regularly assess how targeted lending operations are contributing to its monetary policy stance.
As announced previously the special conditions applicable under TLTRO III will end on . 일 부로 종료.
The Governing Council will also assess the appropriate calibration of its twotier system for reserve remuneration so that the negative interest rate policy does not limit banks intermediation capacity in an environment of ample excess liquidity.
문구 삭제 The Governing Council stands ready to adjust all of its instruments incorporating flexibility if warranted to ensure that inflation stabilises at its target over the medium term.
The pandemic has shown that under stressed conditions flexibility in the design and conduct of asset purchases has helped to counter the impaired transmission of monetary policy and made the Governing Councils efforts to achieve its goal more effective.
Within the ECBs mandate under stressed conditions flexibility will remain an element of monetary policy whenever threats to monetary policy transmission jeopardise the attainment of price stability. 유지
Compliance Notice 본 자료에 기재된 내용들은 작성자 본인의 의견을 정확하게 반영하고 있으며 외부의 부당한 압력이나 간섭 없이 작성되었음을 확인합니다작성자우혜영.
본 자료는 고객의 증권투자를 돕기 위한 정보제공을 목적으로 제작되었습니다.
본 자료에 수록된 내용은 당사 리서치본부가 신뢰할 만한 자료 및 정보를 바탕으로 작성한 것이 나 당사가 그 정확성이나 완전성을 보장할 수 없으므로 참고자료로만 활용하시기 바라며 유가증권 투자 시 투자자 자신의 판단과 책임하에 최종결정을 하시기 바랍니다.
따라서 본 자료는 어떠한 경우에도 고객의 증권투자 결과에 대한 법적 책임소재의 증빙자료로 사용될 수 없습니다.
본 자료는 당사의 저작물로서 모든 저작권은 당사에게 있으며 어떠한 경우에도 당사의 동의 없이 복제 배포 전송 변형될 수 없습니다. 
동 자료는 제공시점 현재 기관투자가 또는 제자에게 사전 제공한 사실이 없습니다. 
동 자료의 추천종목은 전일 기준 현재당사에서 이상 보유하고 있지 않습니다. 
동 자료의 추천종목은 전일 기준 현재 당사의 조사분석 담당자 및 그 배우자 등 관련자가 보유하고 있지 않습니다. 
동 자료의 추천종목에 해당하는 회사는 당사와 계열회사 관계에 있지 않습니다.
