일 월 FOMC 의사록 추가 빅스텝과 MBS 매각 가능성 확인하기 월 빅스텝 인상 후 속도 조정
가지였다.
월 기자회견에서 연준 제롬 파웰 의장이 다음 몇 차례 회의next couple of meetings 빅스텝 가능성을 언급하면서도 bp 인상 및 향후 기준금리 경로 에 대한 의견 일부터 시작되는 양적긴축QT의 예상 효과 및 MBS 매각 방안 등에 대한 연준위원들의 의견이었다.
bp 인상 소위 자이언트 스텝 관련 내용은 부재했다.
지정학 리스크에 따른 글로벌 원자재 가격 상승 중국 봉쇄 조치발 글로벌 공급 병목현상 해소 지연 가능성 하반기 식료품 가격 상승 우려 등으로 여전히 물가 상방 압력이 높긴 하지만 bp 인 상은 오히려 시장의 지나친 우려에서 파생된 과도한 생각이었다는 판단이다.
지난 일 파웰 의장은 WSJ과의 인터뷰에서 다음 몇 차 례 회의에서 월 의사록에서 연준위원들은 통화정책 스탠스의 신속한 조정을 동의 다수 위원들이 다음 몇 차례 회의에서 bp 인상이 적절할 것으로 판단는 문구가 실제로 확인됐다. 연준위원들은 올해 분기 GDP의 경우 순수출과 재고 투자가 성장에 크게 부정적인 기여를 했다면서도 이는 변동성이 큰 요소이며 다 음 분기 성장에 대한 신호의 성격은 없다고 평가했다. 오히려 분기 GDP는 견조하게 성장할 것으로 전망했다. 이렇듯 긍정적인 경제전망 하에서 모든 연준 위원들이 물가 안정 회복 위한 조치를 취 하겠다는 강한 의지와 결의를 재확인한 만큼 월 FOMC 회의에서 연속해서 빅스텝 인상을 전망한다. 공급 병목 현상 완화 경 제활동인구의 추가 증가 팬데믹 관련 재정 정책 지원의 약화 등이 수급 불균형을 완화해 중기적으로 인플레이션을 낮출 수 있는 요인 으로 꼽혔다. 연준위원들이 이러한 효과의 시기와 규모는 불확실하다면서 이러한 요인들에 의존해서 통화정책 스탠스를 조정할 필요성 이 있다고 언급한 점을 고려하면 분기 후반부터 금리인상 속도 조정에 나설 것으로 전망한다. QT에 대한 계획은 모든 위원들이 지지했지만 여러several 위원들은 QT가 금융시장 여건에 예상치 못한 영향을 미칠 수 있는 가능성 이 있음을 강조했다. 다수a number 위원들은 대차대조표 축소가 충분히 잘 진행된 이후에는 재무부 증권으로 구성된 포트폴리오로 의 적절한 진전을 위해 MBS 매각을 고려하는 것이 적절할 것이라는 입장을 보였다최근 발언을 살펴보면 로레타 메스터 총재 존 윌 리엄스 총재 제임스 불라드 총재 등이 MBS 매각 가능성을 언급. Fixed Income 우혜영 투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 Appendix 월 FOMC 회의록 주요 내용 . . . . 통화정책 통화정책 통화정책 통화정책 결정 결정 결정 결정 기준금리 기준금리 기준금리 기준금리 인상 인상 인상 인상 및 및 및 및 양적긴축 양적긴축 양적긴축 양적긴축QT QT QT QT In their consideration of the appropriate stance of monetary policy all participants concurred that the U.S. economy was very strong the labor market was extremely tight and inflation was very high and well above the Committees percent inflation objective. Against this backdrop all participants agreed that it was appropriate to raise the target range for the all participants agreed that it was appropriate to raise the target range for the all participants agreed that it was appropriate to raise the target range for the all participants agreed that it was appropriate to raise the target range for the federal funds rate basis points at this meeting federal funds rate basis points at this meeting federal funds rate basis points at this meeting federal funds rate basis points at this meeting. They further anticipated that ongoing increases in the target range for the federal funds rate would be warranted to achieve the Committees objectives. Participants also agreed that it was appropriate to start reducing the size of the Federal Reserves balance sheet on June as described in the Plans for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserves Balance Sheet that would be issued in conjunction with the postmeeting statement. Participants judged that an appropriate firming of the stance of monetary policy along with an eventual waning of supplydemand imbalances would help to keep longerterm inflation expectations anchored and bring inflation down over time to levels consistent with the Committees percent longerrun goal. 모든 위원들은 미국 경제가 매우 강하고 노동시장이 극도로 타이트하며 인플레이션은 매우 높고 의 목표수준을 크게 상회 하고 있다는데 동의. 이를 바탕으로 모든 위원들은 이번 회의에서 bp 인상이 적절하다는데 동의했고 연준 목표 달성 위해 지 속적으로 금리 인상할 것으로 예상. 아울러 위원들은 일부터 대차대조표 규모 축소 개시가 적절하다고 동의. 위원들은 수 급 불균형 완화와 함께 적절하게 통화정책 스탠스를 확실히 하는 것은 장기 기대 인플레이션을 고정하고 시간이 지남에 따라 인 플레이션이 연준의 장기목표 수준으로 낮추는데 도움이 될 것이라고 판단 All participants reaffirmed their strong commitment All participants reaffirmed their strong commitment All participants reaffirmed their strong commitment All participants reaffirmed their strong commitment and determination to take the measures necessary to restore price and determination to take the measures necessary to restore price and determination to take the measures necessary to restore price and determination to take the measures necessary to restore price stability stability stability stability. To this end participants agreed that the Committee should expeditiously move the stance of monetary policy toward a neutral posture through both increases in the target range for the federal funds rate and reductions in the size of the Federal Reserves balance sheet. Most participants judged that basis point increases in the target range would likely be appropriate at the next couple of meetings. Many participants assessed that the Committees previous communications had been helpful in shifting market expectations regarding the policy outlook into better alignment with the Committees assessment and had contributed to the tightening of financial conditions. 모든 연준위원들은 물가 안정 회복 위한 조치를 취하겠다는 강한 의지commitment와 결의determination 재확인. 이를 위 해 위원들은 신속하게 통화정책 스탠스를 중립적으로neutral posture로 전환해야 한다는데 동의. 대부분most 위원들은 다음 몇 차례next couple of meetings 회의에서 bp 인상이 적절할 것으로 판단. 많은many 위원들은 연준의 이전 커뮤니케이 션이 통화정책에 대한 시장 예상을 연준의 평가와 더 잘 일치하도록 하는데 도움이 되었고 금융여건의 긴축에 기여했다고 평가 All participants supported the plans for reducing the size of the balance sheet All participants supported the plans for reducing the size of the balance sheet All participants supported the plans for reducing the size of the balance sheet All participants supported the plans for reducing the size of the balance sheet. This reduction starting on June would work in parallel with increases in the target range for the policy rate in firming the stance of firming the stance of firming the stance of firming the stance of monetary policy monetary policy monetary policy monetary policy. A number of A number of A number of A number of participants remarked that after balance sheet runoff was well under way it would be appropriate for the Committee to participants remarked that after balance sheet runoff was well under way it would be appropriate for the Committee to participants remarked that after balance sheet runoff was well under way it would be appropriate for the Committee to participants remarked that after balance sheet runoff was well under way it would be appropriate for the Committee to consider sales of agency MBS to enable suitable progress toward a longer consider sales of agency MBS to enable suitable progress toward a longer consider sales of agency MBS to enable suitable progress toward a longer consider sales of agency MBS to enable suitable progress toward a longer run SOMA portfolio composed primar run SOMA portfolio composed primar run SOMA portfolio composed primar run SOMA portfolio composed primarily of ily of ily of ily of Treasury securities Treasury securities Treasury securities Treasury securities. Any program of sales of agency MBS would be announced well in advance. Any program of sales of agency MBS would be announced well in advance. Any program of sales of agency MBS would be announced well in advance. Any program of sales of agency MBS would be announced well in advance. Regarding risks related Regarding risks related Regarding risks related Regarding risks related to the balance sheet reduction several participants noted the potential for unanticipated effects on financial market to the balance sheet reduction several participants noted the potential for unanticipated effects on financial market to the balance sheet reduction several participants noted the potential for unanticipated effects on financial market to the balance sheet reduction several participants noted the potential for unanticipated effects on financial market conditions. conditions. conditions. conditions. 모든 위원들은 대차 대조표 축소 계획 지지. 일부터 시작되는 축소는 통화정책 기조를 확고히 하기 위해 금리 인상과 병 행할 예정. 다수a number 위원들은 대차대조표 축소가 충분히 잘 진행된 이후에는 재무부 증권으로 구성된 장기 SOMA 포트 폴리오로의 적절한 진전을 가능케 하기 위해 MBS 매각을 고려하는 것이 적절할 것이라고 언급. MBS 매각은 사전에 공지될 것. 대차대조표 축소 관련 리스크에 대해 여러several 위원들은 금융시장 여건에 예상치 못한 영향을 미칠 수 있는 가능성 강조 투자코멘트 우혜영
s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 Participants agreed that the economic outlook was highly uncertain and that policy decisions should be data dependent and focused on returning inflation to the Committees percent goal while sustaining strong labor market conditions.
At present participants judged that it was important to move expeditiously to a more neutral monetary policy stance.
They also noted that a restrictive stance of policy may well become appropriate depending on the evolving economic outlook and the risks to the outlook.
Participants observed that developments associated with Russias invasion of Ukraine and the COVIDrelated lockdowns in China posed heightened risks for both the United States and economies around the world.
Several participants co Several participants co Several participants co Several participants commented on the challenges that monetary policy faced in restoring price stability while also mmented on the challenges that monetary policy faced in restoring price stability while also mmented on the challenges that monetary policy faced in restoring price stability while also mmented on the challenges that monetary policy faced in restoring price stability while also maintaining strong labor market conditions maintaining strong labor market conditions maintaining strong labor market conditions maintaining strong labor market conditions.
In light of the high degree of uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook participants judged that riskmanagement considerations would be important in deliberations over time regarding the appropriate policy stance.
Many participants judged that expediting the removal of policy accommodation would leave the Committee well positioned later this year to assess the effects of policy firming and the extent to which economic developments warranted policy adjustments.
 위원들은 경제 전망이 매우 불확실하고 통화정책 결정은 데이터에 의존해야 하며 강력한 노동 시장 조건을 유지하면서 인플레 이션을 목표로 돌아가는데 초점을 맞춰야 한다는 데 동의.
현재 위원들은 보다 중립적인 통화정책 스탠스로의 신속한 전환 이 중요하다고 판단.
아울러 진화하는 경제 전망과 전망에 대한 리스크에 따라서 제한적restrictive인 정책 기조가 적절해질 수 있다고 언급.
위원들은 러시아의 우크라이나 침공과 중국의 봉쇄 조치 관련 상황이 미국을 비롯한 글로벌 경제에 위험을 높인다 는 것을 확인.
몇몇several 위원들은 강력한 노동 시장 여건을 유지하면서 물가 안정을 회복하는 데 있어 통화정책이 직면한 도전 과제어려움challenges에 대해 언급.
경제전망을 둘러싼 불확실성이 높다는 점을 고려하면 위원들은 시간이 지남에 따라 적절한 정책 기조에 대한 심의에서 리스크 관리가 중요한 고려 사항이라 판단.
많은many 참가자들은 완화적인 통화정책의 신 속한 제거는 올해 후반에 연준이 통화정책의 확고히 한 것에 대한 효과와 경제 발전이 통화정책 조정을 정당화한 정도를 평가할 수 있는 좋은 위치에 놓이게 될 것이라고 판단 . . . . 경제 경제 경제 경제 전망 전망 전망 전망Staff Staff Staff Staff The projection for U.S. economic activity prepared by the staff for the May FOMC meeting implied a trajectory for real a trajectory for real a trajectory for real a trajectory for real GDP that was broadly similar to the March projection GDP that was broadly similar to the March projection GDP that was broadly similar to the March projection GDP that was broadly similar to the March projection.
The staff noted that the firstquarter decline in real GDP was driven by categories of spending that had often been volatile in the past and they viewed the continued strength in private domestic final demand the labor market and industrial production as providing a more accurate picture of the economys direction in the first quarter.
The staff therefore anticipated that GDP growth would rebound in the second GDP growth would rebound in the second GDP growth would rebound in the second GDP growth would rebound in the second quarter and advance at a solid pace over the remainder of the year quarter and advance at a solid pace over the remainder of the year quarter and advance at a solid pace over the remainder of the year quarter and advance at a solid pace over the remainder of the year.
GDP growth was then expected to slow in and real GDP growth was expected to be in line with potential output growth.
However the level of real GDP was expected to remain well above potential over the projection period and labor market conditions were expected to remain very tight.
 월 전망의 GDP 성장률 전망 경로궤적과 유사할 것으로 예상.
분기 실질 경제성장률의 하락은 과거에 종종 변동성이 높 았던 지출에 의해 주도되었고 민간 국내 최종 소비 노동 시장 산업 생산의 지속적인 강세는 분기 경제 방향의 그림을 보다 정확하게 제공.
분기 성장률은 반등하고 올해 남은 기간 동안에도 견조한solid 속도로 성장할 것으로 예상.
덜 완화적인 통화 정책 및 보다 타이트해질 금융여건 등으로 년까지 잠재적 성장률에 부합할 것년 실질 GDP 성장률 잠재성장률 일치하는 속도로 더 둔화.
전 망 기간 동안 실질 GDP 레벨은 잠재 수준을 훨씬 상회할 것이며 노동시장은 매우 타이트할 상황이 유지 될 것유지 The staffs projection for PCE price inflation was revised up slightly in the second half of in response to PCE price inflation was revised up slightly in the second half of in response to PCE price inflation was revised up slightly in the second half of in response to PCE price inflation was revised up slightly in the second half of in response to the slow resolution of supply constraints seen over the first part of a higher projected path for import prices and a the slow resolution of supply constraints seen over the first part of a higher projected path for import prices and a the slow resolution of supply constraints seen over the first part of a higher projected path for import prices and a the slow resolution of supply constraints seen over the first part of a higher projected path for import prices and a judgme judgme judgme judgment that wage increases would put more upward pressure on services prices than previously assumed nt that wage increases would put more upward pressure on services prices than previously assumed nt that wage increases would put more upward pressure on services prices than previously assumed nt that wage increases would put more upward pressure on services prices than previously assumed.
All told total PCE price inflation was expected to be . PCE price inflation was then expected to step down to as supplydemand imbalances in the economy were reduced by slowing 투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 aggregate demand and an anticipated easing of supply constraints.
 분기의 느린 공급 제약 해소 예상보다 높아진 수입 가격 경로 당초 예상보다 높은 서비스 가격 상승에 대한 임금 인상 압력 등을 반영해 년의 PCE 물가 상승률 상향 조정.
 전망하며 총수요 둔화를 통한 수급 불균형 감소와 공급 제약 완화로 로 낮아질 것 The staff continued to judge that the risks to the baseline projection for real activity were skewed to the downside and real activity were skewed to the downside and real activity were skewed to the downside and real activity were skewed to the downside and that the risks to the that the risks to the that the risks to the that the risks to the inflation projection were skewed to the upside inflation projection were skewed to the upside inflation projection were skewed to the upside inflation projection were skewed to the upside.
The war in Ukraine was seen as a possible source of even greater upward pressure on energy and commodity price even greater upward pressure on energy and commodity price even greater upward pressure on energy and commodity price even greater upward pressure on energy and commodity prices while the war and adverse developments associated with rising COVID infections in China were both perceived as increasing the risk that supply chain disruptions and production constraints would be further exacerbated in the United States and abroad.
 실제 활동에 대한 Baseline 전망은 하방 리스크 인플레이션 예측은 상방 리스크로 치우쳐져 있다고 판단유지.
우크라이나 전쟁은 에너지 및 원자재 가격에 더 큰 상승 압력을 가할 수 있는 가능한 원인 . 경제전망연준위원 The invasion and related events were creating additional upward pressure on inflation and were likely to weigh on economic activity.
In addition participants judged that COVIDrelated lockdowns in China were likely to exacerbate supply chain disruptions.
Against this background participants stated that they were highly attentive to inflation risks.
 침공 및 관련 이벤트는 인플레이션에 대한 추가적인 상승 압력을 가했고 경제 활동에 부담을 줄 가능성.
아울러 위원들은 중 국의 코로나바이러스 관련 봉쇄조치가 공급망 중단을 악화시킬 가능성이 있다고 판단.
이로인해 위원들은 인플레이션 리스크에 매우 주의를 기울였다고 언급 Participants commented that after its rapid growth in the last quarter of real GDP had declined in the first quarter of this year with net exports and inventory investment making large negative contributions to growth.
They noted however that these volatile components tended to contain little signal about subsequent growth and that household spending and business fixed investment had remained strong in the first quarter.
These advances and the further tightening of labor market conditions were judged consistent with significant underlying momentum in the domestic economy.
In line with this judgment participants expected that real GDP would grow solidly in the current quarter.
In their discussion of the economic outlook beyond the near term participants indicated that they expected that output would expand more participants indicated that they expected that output would expand more participants indicated that they expected that output would expand more participants indicated that they expected that output would expand more moderately this year than in with growth this year likely near or above its longer moderately this year than in with growth this year likely near or above its longer moderately this year than in with growth this year likely near or above its longer moderately this year than in with growth this year likely near or above its longer run rate and that the imbalance run rate and that the imbalance run rate and that the imbalance run rate and that the imbalance between aggregate demand and aggregate between aggregate demand and aggregate between aggregate demand and aggregate between aggregate demand and aggregate supply would diminish over time supply would diminish over time supply would diminish over time supply would diminish over time.
Participants saw an appropriate firming of monetary policy as playing a central role in addressing this imbalance and in supporting the Federal Reserves goals of maximum employment and price stability.
An easing of supply bottlenecks a further rise in labor force participation and the waning effects of pandemicrelated fiscal policy support were cited as additional factors that could help reduce the supplydemand imbalances in the economy and lower inflation over the medium term.
That said the timing and magnitude of these effects were uncertain.
Participants recognized the need to adjust the stance of policy depending on how these and other factors played out over time.
 위원들은 분기에 실질 GDP가 감소했는데 순수출과 재고 투자가 성장에 크게 부정 적인 기여를 했다고 언급.
다만 이러한 변동성 요소가 다음 성장에 대한 신호를 거의 포함하지 않으며 분기에도 가계 지출과 기업고정 투자가 강세 유지했음을 강조.
이러한 진전과 노동 시장 여건의 추가 타이트함은 미국 경제의 상당한 기저 모멘텀과 일치하는 것으로 판단.
이러한 판단 하에 위원들은 분기 실질 GDP는 견조하게 성장할 것으로 전망.
단기적 경제 전망에 대한 논의에서는 위원들이 올해 GDP는 년보다 완만하게 확장될 것이며 성장률은 장기 성장률에 근접하거나 그 이상일 것으로 예상했고 수급 불균형은 시간이 지남에 따라 완화될 것으로 평가.
위원들은 통화정책의 적절한 확고함이 이러한 불균형을 해결 투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 하고 최대 고용 및 물가 안정이라는 목표 달성 지원에 중심 역할을 하는 것으로 봄.
공급 병목 현상 완화 경제활동인구의 추가 증가 팬데믹 관련 재정 정책 지원의 약화 등이 경제 수급 불균형을 완화하고 중기적으로 인플레이션을 낮추는 데 도움이 될 수 있는 추가 요인으로 언급.
이러한 효과의 시기와 규모는 불확실하므로 위원들은 이러한 요인들에 의존해서 통화정책 스탠스를 조정할 필요성이 있음을 인식 Participants commented that demand for labor continued to outstrip available supply across many parts of the economy and that their business contacts continued to report difficulties in hiring and retaining workers.
They observed that various indicators pointed to a very tight labor market.
Employment growth had continued at a strong pace the unemployment rate had fallen to a nearyear low quits and job openings had remained extremely elevated and nominal wages had continued to rise rapidly.
A few participants noted that there were signs that the pandemicrelated factors that had held back labor supply might be abating further especially in the case of primeage workers.
In addition a few other a few other a few other a few other participants suggested that the unwelcome erosion of rea participants suggested that the unwelcome erosion of rea participants suggested that the unwelcome erosion of rea participants suggested that the unwelcome erosion of real incomes due to high inflation may have contributed to the l incomes due to high inflation may have contributed to the l incomes due to high inflation may have contributed to the l incomes due to high inflation may have contributed to the increase in labor supply increase in labor supply increase in labor supply increase in labor supply.
Many participants indicated that they expected the labor market to remain tight and wage pressures to stay elevated for some time.
Several participants raised the possibi Several participants raised the possibi Several participants raised the possibi Several participants raised the possibility that in light of the exceptionally high lity that in light of the exceptionally high lity that in light of the exceptionally high lity that in light of the exceptionally high ratio of vacancies to job searchers a moderation in labor demand might serve to reduce vacancies and wage pressures ratio of vacancies to job searchers a moderation in labor demand might serve to reduce vacancies and wage pressures ratio of vacancies to job searchers a moderation in labor demand might serve to reduce vacancies and wage pressures ratio of vacancies to job searchers a moderation in labor demand might serve to reduce vacancies and wage pressures without having significant effects on the unemployment rate.
without having significant effects on the unemployment rate.
without having significant effects on the unemployment rate.
without having significant effects on the unemployment rate.
 위원들은 노동 수요가 계속해서 가용 공급을 능가하고 있으며 비즈니스 컨택트는 지속적으로 노동자를 고용하고 유지하는데 어려움이 있다고 보고했다고 언급.
고용 성장은 강력한 속도로 계속됐고 거의 년 만에 실업률은 최저 수준으로 하락했으며 퇴 직과 일자리 창출은 여전히 극도로 높아졌고 명목 임금은 계속 빠르게 상승.
몇몇 a few 위원들은 프라임 에이지 근로자의 경 우 노동 공급을 억제했던 팬데믹 관련 요인이 더 줄어들 수 있다는 징후가 있다고 지적.
또한 다른 몇몇a few 위원들은 높은 인플레이션으로 인한 실질 소득의 달갑지 않은 침식이 노동 공급 증가에 기여했을 수 있다는 입장.
많은many 위원들은 노동 시장이 타이트한 상태를 유지하고 임금 상승 압력이 한동안 높은 수준을 유지할 것으로 예상.
다수several 위원들은 구직자대 비 공석 비율이 이례적으로 높은 점을 감안하면 노동 수요의 조절이 실업률에 큰 영향을 미치지 않으면서 공석과 임금 상승 압 력을 줄일 수 있는 가능성을 제기 Participants observed that inflation continued to run well above the Committees longerrun goal and that inflation pressures were evident in a broad array of goods and services.
Various participants remarked on the hardship caused by elevated inflation and heightened inflation uncertaintyincluding by eroding American families real incomes and wealth and by making it more difficult for businesses to make production and investment plans. They also pointed out that high inflation could impede the achievement of maximum employment on a sustained basis. A number of participants A number of participants A number of participants A number of participants observed that recent monthly data might suggest that overall price pressures may no longer be worsening. These observed that recent monthly data might suggest that overall price pressures may no longer be worsening. These observed that recent monthly data might suggest that overall price pressures may no longer be worsening. These observed that recent monthly data might suggest that overall price pressures may no longer be worsening. These participants also emphasized that price pressures remained elevated and that it was too early to participants also emphasized that price pressures remained elevated and that it was too early to participants also emphasized that price pressures remained elevated and that it was too early to participants also emphasized that price pressures remained elevated and that it was too early to be confident that be confident that be confident that be confident that inflation had peaked inflation had peaked inflation had peaked inflation had peaked. Many participants commented that measures of shortterm inflation expectations were elevated or that farforward measures of inflation compensation were near the upper edge of their historical range. Several participants judged that measures of longerterm inflation expectations derived from surveys of households professional forecasters and market participants still appeared to be broadly consistent with the Committees longerrun inflation objective likely reflecting respondents confidence that the Federal Reserve would take the actions necessary to return inflation to percent.
They noted that together with appropriate firming of monetary policy and an eventual easing of supply constraints wellanchored longerterm inflation expectations would support a return of inflation to levels consistent with the Committees longerrun goal.
 위원들은 인플레이션이 연준의 장기 목표 수준을 크게 상회하고 있고 인플레이션 압력이 다양한 상품과 서비스에서 분명하다
는 점을 확인.
다양한various 위원들은 가계의 실질 소득 및 부의 잠식 기업의 생산 및 투자 계획 어려움 등 높은 수준의 인 플레이션 및 인플레이션 관련 불확실성 확대로 인한 어려움을 언급.
이들은 높은 인플레이션이 지속적으로 최대 고용 달성을 방 해할 수 있음을 지적.
몇a number 위원들은 최근 월간 데이터가 전반적인 가격 압력이 더 이상 악화되지 않을 수 있음을 시 사할 수 있음을 관찰.
이들은 물가 압력이 여전히 높은 상태이며 인플레이션이 정점에 이르렀다고 확신하기에는 너무 이르다고 투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 강조.
많은many 위원들은 단기 인플레이션 기대치가 높아졌거나 인플레이션 보상에 대한 먼 미래 측정치가 역사적 범위의 상 단 부근에 있다고 언급.
다수several 위원들은 설문조사에 따르면 장기 기대 인플레이션이 여전히 연준의 장기 인플레이션 목 표와 대체로 일치하는 것으로 판단답변자들은 연준이 인플레이션을 로 되돌리기 위해 필요한 조치를 취할 것으로 생각.
In addition some participants emphasized that persistently hi some participants emphasized that persistently hi some participants emphasized that persistently hi some participants emphasized that persistently high inflation heightened the risk that longer gh inflation heightened the risk that longer gh inflation heightened the risk that longer gh inflation heightened the risk that longer term inflation term inflation term inflation term inflation expectations could become unanchored in that case the task of returning inflation to percent would be more difficult expectations could become unanchored in that case the task of returning inflation to percent would be more difficult expectations could become unanchored in that case the task of returning inflation to percent would be more difficult expectations could become unanchored in that case the task of returning inflation to percent would be more difficult.
Uncertainty about real activity was also seen as elevated.
Various participants noted downside risks to the outlook including risks associated with the Russian invasion and COVIDrelated lockdowns in China and the likelihood of a prolonged rise in energy and commodity prices.
 일부some 위원들은 지속적으로 높은 인플레이션이 장기 인플레이션 기대치가 고정되지 않을 위험을 높인다고 강조했는데 이러한 경우 인플레이션을 로 되돌리는 작업은 더 어려울 것 Compliance Notice 본 자료에 기재된 내용들은 작성자 본인의 의견을 정확하게 반영하고 있으며 외부의 부당한 압력이나 간섭 없이 작성되었음을 확인합니다작성자우혜영.
본 자료는 고객의 증권투자를 돕기 위한 정보제공을 목적으로 제작되었습니다.
본 자료에 수록된 내용은 당사 리서치본부가 신뢰할 만한 자료 및 정보를 바탕으로 작성한 것이 나 당사가 그 정확성이나 완전성을 보장할 수 없으므로 참고자료로만 활용하시기 바라며 유가증권 투자 시 투자자 자신의 판단과 책임하에 최종결정을 하시기 바랍니다.
따라서 본 자료는 어떠한 경우에도 고객의 증권투자 결과에 대한 법적 책임소재의 증빙자료로 사용될 수 없습니다.
본 자료는 당사의 저작물로서 모든 저작권은 당사에게 있으며 어떠한 경우에도 당사의 동의 없이 복제 배포 전송 변형될 수 없습니다. 
동 자료는 제공시점 현재 기관투자가 또는 제자에게 사전 제공한 사실이 없습니다. 
동 자료의 추천종목은 전일 기준 현재당사에서 이상 보유하고 있지 않습니다. 
동 자료의 추천종목은 전일 기준 현재 당사의 조사분석 담당자 및 그 배우자 등 관련자가 보유하고 있지 않습니다. 
동 자료의 추천종목에 해당하는 회사는 당사와 계열회사 관계에 있지 않습니다.
