일 월 FOMC Review 여년만의 빅스텝.
QT는 일부터 한 두 차례의 추가 빅스텝은 OK 하지만 bp는 NO
일부터 대차대조표 축소이하 QT를 시작 키로 결정했다.
빅스텝 인상 결정과 함께 포워드가이던스에 신속하게expeditiously라는 단어가 추가될지 여부도 중요한 관전 포인트 였는데 포워드가이던스 문구에 변화는 없었다.
월 FOMC 의사록에서 인플레 이션 압력이 계속 상승하거나 심화될 경우 향후 회의에서 한 번 이상의 월 FOMC 이후부터 연준위원들이 bp 인상에 대한 발언을 가감 없이 했기 때문에 이날 결정이 금융시장에 미치는 영향은 다소 제한적이었다.
오히려 기자회견에서 제롬 파웰 의장이 bp 인상은 연준이 적극적actively으로 고려하고 있지 않다고 발언해 예상보다 덜 매파적인 회의로 해석됐다.
다만 이러한 연준 의견의 전제조건은 인플레이션이 점차 완화될 것이라는 기대이다.
통화정책 성명문에서 언급되었 듯 러시아의 우크라이나 침공이 물가의 상방 압력을 가하고 있는 상황에서 코로나 재확산에 따른 중국의 봉쇄조치로 공급망 차질이 악 화된다면 인플레이션 압력은 지속될 가능성이 있다.
즉 통화정책을 예상하기엔 여느 때보다 불확실성이 높기 때문에 새롭게 확인되는 데이터들을 바탕으로 언제라도 연준의 통화정책 정상화 속도는 조정될 수 있다는 판단이다.
bp 인상 가능성이 다시 높아진 것으로 보이나 bp 인상에 대한 연준위원들의 견해 향후 발표되는 고용 및 물가지표가 연준의 전망대로 전개되는지 여부 연준위원 발언 변화 등을 주시해 볼 필요가 있다.
QT는 일부터 시작된다.
억 달러였고 최종 월간 한도는 각 각 억 달러였다.
월간 한도는 억 달러씩 증액되었다.
과거보다 더 빠르게 보유 증권 규모를 축소하는 방법은 최초 및 최종 월간 한도를 크게 설정하거나 개월보다 짧은 기간term으로 한도를 증액하는 방안 등이 있다.
이번 QT의 최초 월간 한도는 미국채 억 달러로 결정됐다.
과거 사례처럼 한도가 배 크다.
기대 인플레이션을 낮추고 현재의 물가의 고착화를 막는 등 물가 안정을 위해 한 차례 이상월 회의 포함 빅스텝에 나서야 할 만큼 연준이 빠르게 대응해야 할 시기이므로 과감한 QT가 시작된다는 판단이다.
과거와 달리 스탠딩 레포기구가 설치되어 있어 단기자금시 장 쪽 발작은 제한적일 것으로 기대되나 파웰 의장이 언급했듯 대차대조표 축소의 효과는 불확실하므로 안심할 수 없다.
따라서 한도를 매월 또는 매 회의마다 증액하기보다 개월 유지하다 증액하는 방안을 선택한 것으로 생각된다.
최종 한도로 증액하기 전에 부작용이 없는지를 모니터링해 나가면서 통화정책 정상화를 이어갈 것으로 전망한다.
Fixed Income 우혜영 투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 통화정책 성명문 변화 . . . . In addition the Committee decided to begin reducing its holdings of Treasury securities and agency debt and agency In addition the Committee decided to begin reducing its holdings of Treasury securities and agency debt and agency In addition the Committee decided to begin reducing its holdings of Treasury securities and agency debt and agency In addition the Committee decided to begin reducing its holdings of Treasury securities and agency debt and agency mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage backed securities on June as described in the backed securities on June as described in the backed securities on June as described in the backed securities on June as described in the Plans for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserves Balance Plans for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserves Balance Plans for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserves Balance Plans for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserves Balance Sheet that were issued in conjunction with this statement.
Sheet that were issued in conjunction with this statement.
Sheet that were issued in conjunction with this statement.
Sheet that were issued in conjunction with this statement.
 일부터 대차대조표 축소 계획에 따라 QT 시작 . . . . Although overall economic activity edged down in the first quarter household spending and business fixed investment Although overall economic activity edged down in the first quarter household spending and business fixed investment Although overall economic activity edged down in the first quarter household spending and business fixed investment Although overall economic activity edged down in the first quarter household spending and business fixed investment remained strong.
remained strong.
remained strong.
remained strong.
 Indicators of economic activity and employment have continued to strengthen에서 수정. 분기 GDP 성장률 마이너스 기록 한 것을 바탕으로 전반적인 경제활동은 분기에 소폭 감소했다고 수정. 다만 가계지출과 기업고정투자는 강했다고strong평가 . . . . Job gains have been Job gains have been Job gains have been Job gains have been robust robust robust robust in recent months and the unemployment rate has declined substantially. in recent months and the unemployment rate has declined substantially. in recent months and the unemployment rate has declined substantially. in recent months and the unemployment rate has declined substantially. Job gains have been strong strong strong strong 에서 수정. 강했다strong에서 탄탄robust했다고 수정됐는데 이는 월 비농업부문 고용이 전월대비 각각 천명 증가로 다소 완화되고 있는 흐름을 보이고 있기 때문 . . . . The implications for the U.S. economy are highly uncertain. The invasion and related events are creating additional The implications for the U.S. economy are highly uncertain. The invasion and related events are creating additional The implications for the U.S. economy are highly uncertain. The invasion and related events are creating additional The implications for the U.S. economy are highly uncertain. The invasion and related events are creating additional upward pressure on inflation and are likely to weigh on economic activity. upward pressure on inflation and are likely to weigh on economic activity. upward pressure on inflation and are likely to weigh on economic activity. upward pressure on inflation and are likely to weigh on economic activity. 월의 The implications for the U.S. economy are highly uncertain but in the near term the invasion and related events are likely to create additional upward pressure on inflation and weigh on economic activity.에서 수정. 단기in the near term라는 문구 삭제. 추가 상방압력으로 작용할 것likely to create additional에서 추가 상방 압력으로 작용하고 있다are creating additional upward pressure on inflation고 수정. 지정학 리스크에 따른 국제유가 식품 등 원자재 가격 상승이 물가 상승 요인으 로 영향을 주고 있음을 확인. 다만 경제활동에 부담이 될 수도 있다는 문구는 유지해 불확실성이 여전히 지속되고 있음을 시사 . . . . In addition COVID In addition COVID In addition COVID In addition COVID related lockdowns in China are likely to exacerbate supply chain disruptions. The Committee is highly related lockdowns in China are likely to exacerbate supply chain disruptions. The Committee is highly related lockdowns in China are likely to exacerbate supply chain disruptions. The Committee is highly related lockdowns in China are likely to exacerbate supply chain disruptions. The Committee is highly attentive to inflation risks. attentive to inflation risks. attentive to inflation risks. attentive to inflation risks. 아울러 코로나 관련 중국의 봉쇄조치는 공급망 차질을 악화할 가능성이 크며 연준은 인플레이션 위험에 매우 주의를 기울이고 있 다는 문구 삽입 그림 미국 물가상승률 그림 미국 비농업부문 고용 자료 Fred 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 주 비농업부문 고용 누적은 월 이후부터 자료 Fred 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 YoY PCE Core PCE 천명 전월대비 증감 누적 투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 Plans for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserves Balance Sheet대차대조표 축소 계획 일 Consistent with the Principles for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserves Balance Sheet that were issued in January Consistent with the Principles for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserves Balance Sheet that were issued in January Consistent with the Principles for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserves Balance Sheet that were issued in January Consistent with the Principles for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserves Balance Sheet that were issued in January all Committee all Committee all Committee all Committee participants agreed to the following plans for significantly reducing the Federal Reserves securities holdings. participants agreed to the following plans for significantly reducing the Federal Reserves securities holdings. participants agreed to the following plans for significantly reducing the Federal Reserves securities holdings. participants agreed to the following plans for significantly reducing the Federal Reserves securities holdings. 월에 발표된 대차대조표 규모 축소 원칙에 따라 모든 연준위원들은 보유하고 있는 증권을 큰 폭으로 줄이기 위해 다음 계획에 동의 The Committee intends to reduce the Federal Reserves securities holdings over time in a predictable manner primarily by adju The Committee intends to reduce the Federal Reserves securities holdings over time in a predictable manner primarily by adju The Committee intends to reduce the Federal Reserves securities holdings over time in a predictable manner primarily by adju The Committee intends to reduce the Federal Reserves securities holdings over time in a predictable manner primarily by adjusting the sting the sting the sting the amounts reinvested of principal payments r amounts reinvested of principal payments r amounts reinvested of principal payments r amounts reinvested of principal payments received from securities held in the System Open Market Account SOMA. Beginning on June eceived from securities held in the System Open Market Account SOMA. Beginning on June eceived from securities held in the System Open Market Account SOMA. Beginning on June eceived from securities held in the System Open Market Account SOMA. Beginning on June principal payments from securities held in the SOMA will be reinvested to the extent that they exceed monthly caps. principal payments from securities held in the SOMA will be reinvested to the extent that they exceed monthly caps. principal payments from securities held in the SOMA will be reinvested to the extent that they exceed monthly caps. principal payments from securities held in the SOMA will be reinvested to the extent that they exceed monthly caps. For Treasury securities the cap will initially For Treasury securities the cap will initially For Treasury securities the cap will initially For Treasury securities the cap will initially be set at billion per month. The be set at billion per month. The be set at billion per month. The be set at billion per month. The decline in holdings of Treasury securities under this monthly cap will include Treasury coupon securities and to the extent decline in holdings of Treasury securities under this monthly cap will include Treasury coupon securities and to the extent decline in holdings of Treasury securities under this monthly cap will include Treasury coupon securities and to the extent decline in holdings of Treasury securities under this monthly cap will include Treasury coupon securities and to the extent that coupon that coupon that coupon that coupon maturities are less maturities are less maturities are less maturities are less than the monthly cap Treasury bills. than the monthly cap Treasury bills. than the monthly cap Treasury bills. than the monthly cap Treasury bills. 미국채 한도는 최초에는 월 억 달러로 증액. 월별 상한선하에서 재무부 증권 보유량 감소에는 재무 부 이표 증권이 포함되는데 만약 월간 상한선보다 적은 금액일 경우 T Bill 포함 For agency debt and agency mortgage For agency debt and agency mortgage For agency debt and agency mortgage For agency debt and agency mortgagebacked securities the cap will initially be set at billion per month and after three months will backed securities the cap will initially be set at billion per month and after three months will backed securities the cap will initially be set at billion per month and after three months will backed securities the cap will initially be set at billion per month and after three months will increase to billion per month. increase to billion per month. increase to billion per month. increase to billion per month. 기관 부채 및 기관 모기지 담보부 증권MBS 한도는 최초에는 월 억 달러 증액 Over time the Committee intends to maintain securities holdings in amounts needed to implement monetary policy efficiently a Over time the Committee intends to maintain securities holdings in amounts needed to implement monetary policy efficiently a Over time the Committee intends to maintain securities holdings in amounts needed to implement monetary policy efficiently a Over time the Committee intends to maintain securities holdings in amounts needed to implement monetary policy efficiently and nd nd nd effectively in its ample reserves regime. effectively in its ample reserves regime. effectively in its ample reserves regime. effectively in its ample reserves regime. 연준은 충분한 지급준비금 체제Ample Reserve Regime 안에서 통화정책을 효율적이고 효과적으로 시행하는 데 필요한 양의 증권을 보유 할 계획 To ensure a smooth transition the Committee intends to slow and then stop the decline in the size of the balance sheet when To ensure a smooth transition the Committee intends to slow and then stop the decline in the size of the balance sheet when To ensure a smooth transition the Committee intends to slow and then stop the decline in the size of the balance sheet when To ensure a smooth transition the Committee intends to slow and then stop the decline in the size of the balance sheet when reserve balances reserve balances reserve balances reserve balances are somewhat above the level it judges to be consistent with ample reserves. are somewhat above the level it judges to be consistent with ample reserves. are somewhat above the level it judges to be consistent with ample reserves. are somewhat above the level it judges to be consistent with ample reserves. 원활한 전환을 위해 연준은 지급준비금 잔액이 충분하다고 판단되는 수준보다 다소 높을 때 대차대조표 규모 축소를 늦추거나 중단할 것 Once balance sheet runoff has ceased reserve balances will likely continue to decline for a time reflecting growth in other Once balance sheet runoff has ceased reserve balances will likely continue to decline for a time reflecting growth in other Once balance sheet runoff has ceased reserve balances will likely continue to decline for a time reflecting growth in other Once balance sheet runoff has ceased reserve balances will likely continue to decline for a time reflecting growth in other Federal Reserve Federal Reserve Federal Reserve Federal Reserve liabilities until the Committee judges that reserve balances are at an liabilities until the Committee judges that reserve balances are at an liabilities until the Committee judges that reserve balances are at an liabilities until the Committee judges that reserve balances are at an ample level. ample level. ample level. ample level. 대차대조표 축소가 중단되면 연준은 지급준비금 잔액이 충분한 수준이라고 판단할 때까지 다른 연준 부채의 증가를 반영해 한동안 계속 감소할 것 Thereafter the Committee will manage securities holdings as needed to maintain ample reserves over time. Thereafter the Committee will manage securities holdings as needed to maintain ample reserves over time. Thereafter the Committee will manage securities holdings as needed to maintain ample reserves over time. Thereafter the Committee will manage securities holdings as needed to maintain ample reserves over time. 연준은 충분한 지급준비금을 유지하기 위해서 필요에 따라 증권 보유를 관리할 것 The The The The Committee is prepared to adjust any of the details of its approach to reducing the size of the balance sheet in light of econ Committee is prepared to adjust any of the details of its approach to reducing the size of the balance sheet in light of econ Committee is prepared to adjust any of the details of its approach to reducing the size of the balance sheet in light of econ Committee is prepared to adjust any of the details of its approach to reducing the size of the balance sheet in light of economic and omic and omic and omic and financial developments. financial developments. financial developments. financial developments. 경제 및 금융 발전에 따라 대차대조표 규모를 줄이기 위한 접근 방식의 세부 사항을 조정할 준비되어 있음 그림bp 인상하면서 RRP 와 IORB 금리도 동일한 폭으로 인상 자료 Fred NY Fed 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 조달러 US TBills Notes and BondsFRN포함 TIPS Federa Agency Securities MBS CMBS 투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 Appendix 월 FOMC 회의록 주요 내용 . . . . 기준금리 기준금리 기준금리 기준금리 인상 인상 인상 인상 In their consideration of the appropriate stance of monetary policy all participants concurred that the U.S. economy was very strong with an extremely tight labor market and that inflation was high and well above the Committees percent inflation objective. Against this backdrop all participants agreed that it was appropriate to begin a process of removing policy accommodation by raising the target range for the federal funds rate at this meeting. They further judged that They further judged that They further judged that They further judged that ongoing increases in the target range for the federal funds rate would be warranted to achieve the Committees ongoing increases in the target range for the federal funds rate would be warranted to achieve the Committees ongoing increases in the target range for the federal funds rate would be warranted to achieve the Committees ongoing increases in the target range for the federal funds rate would be warranted to achieve the Committees objectives. objectives. objectives. objectives. Participants also agreed that reducing the size of the Federal Reserves balance sheet would play an important role in firming the stance of monetary policy and that they expected it would be appropriate to begin this process at a coming meeting possibly as soon as in May. Participants judged that the firming of monetary policy alongside an eventual waning of supplydemand imbalances would help to keep longerterm inflation expectations anchored and bring inflation down over time to levels consistent with the Committees percent longerrun goal while sustaining a strong labor market. 통화정책의 적절한 스탠스를 고려하면서 모든 위원들은 미국 경제가 매우 견고하고 노동시장이 매우 타이트하며 인플레이션이 높고 위원회의 월 회의에서 기준금리를 인상 함으로써 완화적이 통화정책을 제거하는 과정을 시작하는 것이 적절하다는 데 동의. 아울러 아울러 아울러 아울러 연준의 연준의 연준의 연준의 목표를 목표를 목표를 목표를 달성하 달성하 달성하 달성하기 기 기 기 위해서 위해서 위해서 위해서 기 기 기 기 준금리를 준금리를 준금리를 준금리를 지속적으로 지속적으로 지속적으로 지속적으로 인상하는 인상하는 인상하는 인상하는 것이 것이 것이 것이 정당하다고 정당하다고 정당하다고 정당하다고 판단 판단 판단 판단. 위원들은 대차대조표 축소는 통화정책 스탠스를 확고히 하는 데 중요한 역할을 할 것이며 이르면 월 회의에서 이 절차를 시작하는 것이 적절할 것으로 예상. 위원들은 확고한 통화정책과 수급 불균형 의 궁극적인 완화가 장기 기대 인플레이션을 고정하고 시간이 지남에 따라 인플레이션을 장기 목표와 일치하는 수준으로 낮 추는 데 도움이 될 것이라고 판단 Many participants noted thatwith inflation well above the Committees objective inflationary risks to the upside and the federal funds rate well below participants estimates of its longerrun levelthey would have preferred a basis point increase in the target range for the federal funds rate at this meeting. A number of these participants indicated however that in light of greater nearterm uncertainty associated with Russias invasion of Ukraine they judged that a basis point increase would be appropriate at this meeting. 많은 위원들은 목표 수준을 훨씬 상회하는 인플레이션 높아진 인플레이션 상방 리스크 위원들의 장기전망치를 훨씬 하회하 는 연방기금금리를 고려하면 bp 인상을 더 선호. 그러나 이들 중 다수는 러시아의 우크라이나 침공과 관련된 더 큰 단기 불확실성을 고려 시 bp 인상 적절 판단. Many participants noted that one or more basis point increases in the target range could be appropriate at future Many participants noted that one or more basis point increases in the target range could be appropriate at future Many participants noted that one or more basis point increases in the target range could be appropriate at future Many participants noted that one or more basis point increases in the target range could be appropriate at future meetings particularly if inflation pressu meetings particularly if inflation pressu meetings particularly if inflation pressu meetings particularly if inflation pressures remained elevated or intensified res remained elevated or intensified res remained elevated or intensified res remained elevated or intensified. A number of participants noted that the Committees previous communications had already contributed to a tightening of financial conditions as evident in the notable increase in longerterm interest rates over recent months. 많은 위원들은 인플레이션 압력이 계속 상승하거나 심화된다면 향후 회의에서 한 번 이상의 bp 인상이 적절할 수 있다고 언급. 다수의 위원들은 최근 몇 달 동안 장기 금리가 눈에 띄게 상승한 것에서 알 수 있듯이 연준의 이전 커뮤니케이션은 이미 금융 여건의 긴축에 기여했다고 언급 투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 All participants indicated their strong commitment and determination to take the measures necessary to restore price stability. In that context participants judged that the Committees approach of commencing increases in the target range for the federal funds rate and indicating that ongoing increases were likely was fully warranted. Participants judged that Participants judged that Participants judged that Participants judged that it would be appropriate to move the stance of monetary policy toward a neutral posture expeditiously. it would be appropriate to move the stance of monetary policy toward a neutral posture expeditiously. it would be appropriate to move the stance of monetary policy toward a neutral posture expeditiously. it would be appropriate to move the stance of monetary policy toward a neutral posture expeditiously. They also noted that depending on economic and financial developments a move to a tighter policy stance could be warranted. 모든 참가자들은 물가 안정을 회복하는 데 필요한 조치를 취하겠다는 강한 의지와 결의 표명. 이러한 맥락에서 위원들은 금리 인상을 시작하고 지속적인 인상 가능성이 있음을 나타내는 연준의 접근 방식이 충분히 타당하다고 판단. 위원들은 위원들은 위원들은 위원들은 통화정책 통화정책 통화정책 통화정책 스 스 스 스 탠스를 탠스를 탠스를 탠스를 신속 신속 신속 신속하게 하게 하게 하게 중립적 중립적 중립적 중립적 수준으로 수준으로 수준으로 수준으로 전환하는 전환하는 전환하는 전환하는 것이 것이 것이 것이 적절하다고 적절하다고 적절하다고 적절하다고 판단 판단 판단 판단. 아울러 경제 및 금융 발전에 따라 더욱 긴축 정책 기조로의 움직임이 정당화될 수 있음을 언급 A few participants judged that at the current juncture a significant risk facing the Committee was that elevated inflation and inflation expectations could become entrenched if the public began to question the Committees resolve to adjust the stance of policy as appropriate to achieve the Committees percent longerrun objective for inflation. These participants suggested that expediting the removal of policy accommodation would reduce this risk while also leaving the Committee well positioned to adjust the stance of policy if geopolitical and other developments led to a more rapid dissipation of demand pressures than expected. 몇몇 위원들은 현재 시점에서 연준이 직면한 중대한 위험은 대중이 연준에 의문을 제기하기 시작하면 높은 인플레이션과 인플 레이션 기대치가 고착될 수 있다는 것으로 판단. 인플레이션에 대한 위원회의 장기 목표를 달성하기 위해 적절하게 정책 기 조를 조정하기로 결의. 이들 위원들은 정책 조정을 신속하게 제거하면 이러한 위험을 줄이는 동시에 지정학적 및 기타 발전으로 인해 수요 압력이 예상보다 더 빠르게 소실될 경우 위원회가 정책의 입장을 조정할 수 있는 좋은 위치에 놓이게 될 것이라 제안 Participants agreed that the economic outlook was highly uncertain and that policy decisions must take account of the state of financial markets and the economy. As always the Committee would need to be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary policy in response to the evolving economic outlook and the risks to the outlook. In this regard participants noted that developments associated with Russias invasion of Ukraine posed heightened risks for both the United States and the global economy. Against this backdrop all participants judged that risk management would be important in deciding upon the appropriate stance of monetary policy and that policy also would need to be nimble in responding to incoming data and the evolving outlook. In particular all participants underscored the need to remain attentive to the risks of further upward pressure on inflation and longerrun inflation expectations. 연준위원들은 경제전망이 매우 불확실하며 정책결정은 금융시장과 경제 상황 고려해야 함을 동의. 언제나처럼 연준은 진화하 는 경제 전망과 전망 관련 리스크에 대응해 통화정책 스탠스 조정할 준비 되어 있어야 함. 위원들은 러시아의 우크라이나 침공 관련 상황이 미국과 세계 경제에 고조된 위험 초래할 수 있음을 주목. 이러한 상황에서 모든 위원들은 통화정책의 적절한 스탠 스를 결정하는 데 있어 리스크 관리가 중요하며 들어오는 데이터와 변화하는 전망에 대한 대응도 민첩할 필요 있다고 판단. 특 히 모든 위원들은 인플레이션에 대한 추가 상승 압력과 장기 기대인플레이션 관련 리스크에 계속 주의 기울일 필요 있음을 강조 투자코멘트 우혜영
s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 . . . . 대차대조표 대차대조표 대차대조표 대차대조표 축소 축소 축소 축소 논의 논의 논의 논의 All of the options featured a more rapid pace of balance sheet runoff than in the episode.
The options differed primarily with respect to the size of the monthly caps for securities redemptions in the SOMA portfolio.
 연준위원들이 과거 년의 경험에 대한 리뷰를 바탕으로 대차대조표 축소 관련 논의를 진행했는데 가능한 모든 옵션은 과거보다 신속한rapid 속도로 줄이는 내용.
주로 옵션의 차이는 만기상환 증권의 월간 상한caps 규모 all participants agreed that elevated inflation and tight labor market conditions warranted commencement of balance sheet runoff at a coming meeting with a faster pace of decline in securities holdings with a faster pace of decline in securities holdings with a faster pace of decline in securities holdings with a faster pace of decline in securities holdings than over the than over the than over the than over the period.
 period.
 period.
 period.
Participants reaffirmed that the Federal Reserves securities holdings should be reduced over time in a predictable manner primarily by adjusting the amounts reinvested of principal payments received from securities held in the SOMA.
 모든 위원들은 높아진 물가상승률 타이트한 노동시장 여건은 다가오는 회의에서 보장하며 과거보다 과거보다 과거보다 과거보다 보유 보유 보유 보유 증권 증권 증권 증권 규모 규모 규모 규모 감소 감소 감소 감소 속 속 속 속 도가 도가 도가 도가 더 더 더 더 빠를 빠를 빠를 빠를 것이라는데 것이라는데 것이라는데 것이라는데 동의 동의 동의 동의....
보유증권의 재투자 규모 조정을 통해 예측 가능한 방식으로 진행할 것을 재확인 Several participants remarked that they would be comfortable with relatively high monthly caps or no caps.
Some other participants noted that monthly caps for Treasury securities should take into consideration potential risks to market functioning.
Partici Partici Partici Participants generally agreed that monthly caps of about pants generally agreed that monthly caps of about pants generally agreed that monthly caps of about pants generally agreed that monthly caps of about billion for agency MBS would likely be appropriate billion for agency MBS would likely be appropriate billion for agency MBS would likely be appropriate billion for agency MBS would likely be appropriate.
Participants also generally agreed that the caps could be phased in Participants also generally agreed that the caps could be phased in Participants also generally agreed that the caps could be phased in Participants also generally agreed that the caps could be phased in over a period of three months or mod over a period of three months or mod over a period of three months or mod over a period of three months or modestly longer if market conditions warrant.
estly longer if market conditions warrant.
estly longer if market conditions warrant.
estly longer if market conditions warrant.
 몇몇 위원들은 상대적으로 높은 월간 상한선 또는 상한선이 없는 것이 편할 것이라는 입장.
일부 다른 위원들은 재무부 증권 의 월별 상한선이 시장 기능에 대한 잠재적 위험을 고려해야 함을 지적.
위원들은 위원들은 위원들은 위원들은 일반적으로 일반적으로 일반적으로 일반적으로 재무부 재무부 재무부 재무부 증권 증권 증권 증권 약 약 약 약 억 억 억 억와 와 와 와 기관 기관 기관 기관 MBS MBS MBS MBS 약 약 약 약 억 억 억 억의 의 의 의 월간 월간 월간 월간 한도가 한도가 한도가 한도가 적절할 적절할 적절할 적절할 것 것 것 것이며 이며 이며 이며 상한선 상한선 상한선 상한선은 은 은 은 개월 개월 개월 개월 또는 또는 또는 또는 시장 시장 시장 시장 상황이 상황이 상황이 상황이 허락하는 허락하는 허락하는 허락하는 경우 경우 경우 경우 그 그 그 그보다 보다 보다 보다 약간 약간 약간 약간 더 더 더 더 긴 긴 긴 긴 기간에 기간에 기간에 기간에 걸 걸 걸 걸 쳐 쳐 쳐 쳐 단계적으로 단계적으로 단계적으로 단계적으로 도입될 도입될 도입될 도입될 수 수 수 수 있다 있다 있다 있다는 는 는 는 데 데 데 데 동의 동의 동의 동의 Most participants judged that it would be appropriate to redeem coupon securities up to the cap amount each month Most participants judged that it would be appropriate to redeem coupon securities up to the cap amount each month Most participants judged that it would be appropriate to redeem coupon securities up to the cap amount each month Most participants judged that it would be appropriate to redeem coupon securities up to the cap amount each month and to redeem Treasury bills in months when Treasury coupon principal payments were below the cap.
Under and to redeem Treasury bills in months when Treasury coupon principal payments were below the cap.
Under and to redeem Treasury bills in months when Treasury coupon principal payments were below the cap.
Under and to redeem Treasury bills in months when Treasury coupon principal payments were below the cap.
Under this this this this approach redemption of Treasury bills would typically bring the total amount of Treasury red approach redemption of Treasury bills would typically bring the total amount of Treasury red approach redemption of Treasury bills would typically bring the total amount of Treasury red approach redemption of Treasury bills would typically bring the total amount of Treasury redemptions up to the monthly emptions up to the monthly emptions up to the monthly emptions up to the monthly cap.
cap.
cap.
cap.
 대부분 위원들은 매월 매월 매월 매월 이표증권을 이표증권을 이표증권을 이표증권을 상한액까지 상한액까지 상한액까지 상한액까지 상환하고 상환하고 상환하고 상환하고 총 총 총 총 상환액이 상환액이 상환액이 상환액이 상한액 상한액 상한액 상한액 이하인 이하인 이하인 이하인 달 달 달 달에는 에는 에는 에는 재무부 재무부 재무부 재무부 어음 어음 어음 어음T T T T Bill Bill Bill Bill을 을 을 을 상환하는 상환하는 상환하는 상환하는 것이 것이 것이 것이 적절하다고 적절하다고 적절하다고 적절하다고 판단 판단 판단 판단....
이 접근법에 따르면 TBill 상환은 재무부 상환액 총액을 매월 상한에 맞출 수 있음.
Several participants remarked that reducing the Federal Reserves Treasury bill holdings over time would be appropriate because Treasury bills are highly valued as safe and liquid assets by the private sector and the Treasury could increase bill issuance to the public as SOMA bill holdings decline.
In addition participants generally noted that maintaining large holdings of Treasury bills is not necessary under the Federal Reserves amplereserves operating framework in the previous scarcereserves regime Treasury bill holdings were useful as a tool that could be used to drain reserves from the banking system when necessary to control shortterm interest rates.
A couple of participants commented that holding some Treasury bills could be appropriate if the Federal Reserve wished to keep its Treasury portfolio neutral with respect to the universe of outstanding Treasury securities.
 몇몇 위원들은 TBill이 민간 부문에서 안전하고 유동적인 자산으로 높이 평가되므로 시간이 지남에 따라 연준 보유 규모를 줄이는 것이 적절하며 재무부는 SOMA의 지폐 보유량이 감소함에 따라 대중에 대한 지폐 발행 확대 가능.
또한 위원들은 연준 의 amplereserves 체제에서 많은 양의 TBill을 보유할 필요가 없음을 주목.
이전의 scarcereserves 체제에서 TBill 보유 투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 는 단기 금리를 통제하기 위해 필요할 때 은행 시스템에서 지급준비금을 빼내는 데 사용할 수 있는 도구로 유용.
몇 명의 위원 들은 국채 포트폴리오를 중립적으로 유지하기를 원한다면 연준이 일부 TBill을 보유하는 것이 적절할 수 있다고 언급 Participants generally agreed that after balance sheet runoff was well under way it will be appropriate to consider sales of agency MBS to enable suitable progress toward a longerrun SOMA portfolio composed primarily of Treasury securities.
A Committee decision to implement a program of agency MBS sales would be announced well in advance.
 위원들은 대차대조표 축소가 상당히 진행된 후 주로 재무부 증권으로 구성된 장기 SOMA 포트폴리오를 향한 적절한 진전을 가능하게 하기 위해 기관 MBS 매각 고려가 적절할 것.
기관 MBS 매각 프로그램을 구현하기 위한 위원회의 결정은 사전에 충 분히 발표될 것 A couple of participants noted that the establishment of the SRF which did not exist in the previous runoff episode could address unexpected money market pressures that might emerge if the Committee adopted an approach to balance sheet reduction in which reserves declined relatively rapidly but several others noted that the facility was not intended as a substitute for ample reserves.
Participants generally agreed that it was important for the Committee to be prepared to adjust any of the details of its approach to reducing the size of the balance sheet in light of economic and financial developments.
 몇명의 위원들 과거에는 부재했던 SRF의 설치는 연준이 지급준비금이 상대적으로 빠르게 감소하는 접근방식을 채택했을 때 발생 가능한 예상치 못한 단기 금융시장 압력을 해결할 수 있다고 언급.
다만 여러 위원들은 이 시설이 충분한 준비금을 대체하 기 위한 것이 아님을 주목.
위원들은 연준이 대차대조표 축소 접근 방식의 세부 사항을 경제 및 금융 발전에 비추어 조정할 준 비를 하는 것이 중요하다는 데 동의 No decision regarding the Committees plan to reduce the Federal Reserves balance sheet was made at this meeting but participants agreed they had made substantial progress on the plan and that the Committee was well placed to begin the process of reducing the size of the balance sheet as early as after the conclusion of its upcoming meeting in May.
 이번 회의에서 대차대조표 축소 계획을 결정하지 않았지만 이 계획에 대해 상당한 진전을 이뤘고 이르면 월 FOMC 회의에 서 시작하는 것이 적절한 위치일 수 있음을 동의 투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 . . . . 경제 경제 경제 경제 전망 전망 전망 전망 The nearterm projection for U.S. economic activity prepared by the staff for the March FOMC meeting was weaker than in January reflecting the anticipated economic effects of the conflict in Ukraine and financial conditions that were expected to be less supportive than previously assumed.
For as a whole real GDP growth was projected to step down markedly from its rapid as the continued resolution of supply constraints provided a small boost to growth.
Real GDP growth was expected to slow further in to a pace that was in line with potential growth.
However the level of real GDP was expected to remain well above potential over the projection period and labor market conditions were expected to remain very tight.
 우크라이나 분쟁의 경제적 효과와 이전에 가정한 것보다 덜 supportive 적일 것으로 예상되는 금융여건을 반영해 미국 경제활 동에 대한 단기 전망은 월보다 약화.
년의 급속한 속도에서 현저히 하락한 후 지 속적인 공급 제약 해소가 성장에 대해 약간의 부양을 제공하면서 년에 약간 회복될 것으로 예상.
년 실질 GDP 성장 률은 잠재성장률과 일치하는 속도로 더 둔화될 것.
다만 실질 GDP 수준이 전망 기간동안 잠재 수준을 훨씬 상회할 것으로 예 상되었고 노동 시장 상황은 매우 타이트한 상태를 유지할 것으로 전망 The staffs nearterm projection for PCE price inflation was revised up considerably relative to January.
The upward revision reflected the staffs reaction to the persistently high and broadbased levels of domestic inflation import price inflation and wage growth that had been observed as well as the staffs expectation that the upward pressure on inflation from supply and demand imbalances would last longer than previously assumed.
In addition total PCE price inflation was further revised up to reflect higher expected paths for consumer energy and food prices.
All told total PCE price inflation was projected to be percent in as food energy and import price inflation moved lower and as supply and demand imbalances were resolved.
 단기 PCE 물가 상승률 전망은 월 보다 상당히 상향조정.
상향 조정은 그동안 관찰됐던 국내 물가상승률 수입물가 상승률 임금상승률 등 지속적이고 광범위한 수준에 대한 직원들의 반응과 더불어 수급 불균형으로 인한 물가 상승 압력이 기존 가정보 다 더 오래 지속될 것이라는 예상 반영.
또한 PCE 물가 상승률은 소비자 에너지와 식품 가격에 대한 더 높은 기대 경로를 반영 하기 위해 추가 수정.
PCE 물가상승률은 일 것.
식품에너지수입물가 상승률이 낮아지고 수급 불균형이 해소되면 서 PCE 물가 상승률은 로 둔화될 것 The staff continued to judge that the risks to the baseline projection for real activity were skewed to the downside and that the risks to the inflation projection were skewed to the upside.
The COVID pandemic remained a source of downside risk to activity while the possibility of more severe and more persistent supply issues was viewed as posing an additional downside risk to activity and an upside risk to inflation.
The Russian invasion of Ukraine was perceived as The Russian invasion of Ukraine was perceived as The Russian invasion of Ukraine was perceived as The Russian invasion of Ukraine was perceived as adding to th adding to th adding to th adding to the uncertainty around the outlook for economic activity and inflation as the conflict carried the risk of further e uncertainty around the outlook for economic activity and inflation as the conflict carried the risk of further e uncertainty around the outlook for economic activity and inflation as the conflict carried the risk of further e uncertainty around the outlook for economic activity and inflation as the conflict carried the risk of further exacerbating supply chain disruptions and of putting additional upward pressure on inflation by boosting the prices for exacerbating supply chain disruptions and of putting additional upward pressure on inflation by boosting the prices for exacerbating supply chain disruptions and of putting additional upward pressure on inflation by boosting the prices for exacerbating supply chain disruptions and of putting additional upward pressure on inflation by boosting the prices for energy food and othe energy food and othe energy food and othe energy food and other key commodities.
Finally the possibility that continued high inflation would cause longer r key commodities.
Finally the possibility that continued high inflation would cause longer r key commodities.
Finally the possibility that continued high inflation would cause longer r key commodities.
Finally the possibility that continued high inflation would cause longer term term term term inflation expectations to become unanchored was seen as another upside risk to the inflation projection.
inflation expectations to become unanchored was seen as another upside risk to the inflation projection.
inflation expectations to become unanchored was seen as another upside risk to the inflation projection.
inflation expectations to become unanchored was seen as another upside risk to the inflation projection.
 실제 활동에 대한 Baseline 전망은 하방 리스크 인플레이션 예측은 상방 리스크로 치우쳐져 있다고 판단.
COVID 팬데믹 은 활동에 대한 하방 위험의 요인으로 상존하며 더 심각하고 더 지속되는 공급 문제 가능성은 활동에 대한 추가하방 리스크이자 인플레이션에 대한 상방 리스크.
러시아의 러시아의 러시아의 러시아의 우크라이나 우크라이나 우크라이나 우크라이나 침공은 침공은 침공은 침공은 경제 경제 경제 경제 활동 활동 활동 활동 및 및 및 및 인플레이션 인플레이션 인플레이션 인플레이션 전망에 전망에 전망에 전망에 대한 대한 대한 대한 불확실성을 불확실성을 불확실성을 불확실성을 가중시키는 가중시키는 가중시키는 가중시키는 것 것 것 것 으로 으로 으로 으로 인식 인식 인식 인식. . . .
갈등 갈등 갈등 갈등은 은 은 은 공급망 공급망 공급망 공급망 혼란을 혼란을 혼란을 혼란을 더욱 더욱 더욱 더욱 악화시키고 악화시키고 악화시키고 악화시키고 에너지 에너지 에너지 에너지 식품 식품 식품 식품 및 및 및 및 기타 기타 기타 기타 원자재 원자재 원자재 원자재 가격을 가격을 가격을 가격을 올려 올려 올려 올려 인플레이션에 인플레이션에 인플레이션에 인플레이션에 추가 추가 추가 추가 상승 상승 상승 상승 압력 압력 압력 압력 가 가 가 가 할 할 할 할 위험 위험 위험 위험. . . .
높은 높은 높은 높은 인플레이션 인플레이션 인플레이션 인플레이션 지속되면 지속되면 지속되면 지속되면 장기 장기 장기 장기 기대 기대 기대 기대인플레 인플레 인플레 인플레이션 이션 이션 이션이 이 이 이 고정되지 고정되지 고정되지 고정되지 않을 않을 않을 않을 수 수 수 수 있어 있어 있어 있어 인플레이션 인플레이션 인플레이션 인플레이션 전망의 전망의 전망의 전망의 또 또 또 또 다른 다른 다른 다른 상승 상승 상승 상승 리스크 리스크 리스크 리스크 투자코멘트 우혜영s Macro Indicators 이베스트투자증권 리서치센터 Compliance Notice 본 자료에 기재된 내용들은 작성자 본인의 의견을 정확하게 반영하고 있으며 외부의 부당한 압력이나 간섭 없이 작성되었음을 확인합니다작성자우혜영.
본 자료는 고객의 증권투자를 돕기 위한 정보제공을 목적으로 제작되었습니다.
본 자료에 수록된 내용은 당사 리서치본부가 신뢰할 만한 자료 및 정보를 바탕으로 작성한 것이 나 당사가 그 정확성이나 완전성을 보장할 수 없으므로 참고자료로만 활용하시기 바라며 유가증권 투자 시 투자자 자신의 판단과 책임하에 최종결정을 하시기 바랍니다.
따라서 본 자료는 어떠한 경우에도 고객의 증권투자 결과에 대한 법적 책임소재의 증빙자료로 사용될 수 없습니다.
본 자료는 당사의 저작물로서 모든 저작권은 당사에게 있으며 어떠한 경우에도 당사의 동의 없이 복제 배포 전송 변형될 수 없습니다. 
동 자료는 제공시점 현재 기관투자가 또는 제자에게 사전 제공한 사실이 없습니다. 
동 자료의 추천종목은 전일 기준 현재당사에서 이상 보유하고 있지 않습니다. 
동 자료의 추천종목은 전일 기준 현재 당사의 조사분석 담당자 및 그 배우자 등 관련자가 보유하고 있지 않습니다. 
동 자료의 추천종목에 해당하는 회사는 당사와 계열회사 관계에 있지 않습니다.
